i'm gonna show you how to start
chestnut trees from seed
the first step is to find a
chestnut tree
these are some chestnuts that we
harvested you want to promptly
heat treat your chestnuts after
harvesting them or else you lose
them to mold and chestnut
weevils got some hot water here
120 degrees seems to be the the
best temperature to chill this
pathogen that and you want to
hold it there for 20 minutes
let's go ahead and dump are
chestnuts in our cooler we're
going to go ahead and throw the
lid on this we got this thing
right at 120 so all the mold
spores and chestnut we both legs
are dead now the next step in
the process is called cold
stratification and what cold
stratification does is it leads
the chestnut to believe that
it's gone through a winter and
it's ready to germinate i'm just
going to put them back in the
bowl we had him the key elements
to proper cold stratification is
obviously cold moisture and air
here's how we're getting air to
them we're not going to put a
little miss so they can get
plenty of transpiration going on
moisture we got this is just
some peat pots are just going to
cover them with a little bit of
Pete now for the cold part i'm
going to set these in our cold
frame which is where we like to
stratify things
this is our cold frame we're
gonna set these little buggies
in here this would be a nice
place them to hangout for 23
months whatever it takes and
you'll start to germinate we're
just going to hang out there for
a little while